---
layout: post
title: "KL Divergence in real life"
tags: ["RLHF"]
mathjax: true
---

Often I face situations where I feel perplexed because I am dealing with something that wouldn't budge no matter how hard I try. Among many approaches that have been helpful, one is knowing
a related idea in RL based LLM training -- KL Divergence. To prevent the policy from straying too far from the "reference" policy, we penalize the model based on it's KL divergence.

May be I can apply something similar when dealing with things in life -- the ideal approach to deal with that thing should not require me to stray too far from my base state. In other words,
if life deals me with a problem, I should be able to handle it (or atleast try to handle) in a more natural way, instead of trying to come up with some esoteric ways that would require a whole
lot of activation energy for me to shift from my current state into that new state. Also, the fact that a sequence of events must have occured before I finally face that problem suggest that all those events must have
prepared me in some ways to handle the problem, so I better keep my eye open.

For example, say I start working as an intern at some company $X$, and am assigned a project $X_i$ to work on, which I have very little knowledge about. My first bet would be to gain as much
understanding of the domain as possible, but turns out it's several 100,000s lines of code, and would indeed take an experienced developer a few weeks to get started, let alone an intern with 
practically no experience of that field. However, I can not ignore the fact that whoever decided to hand me the project referred to my resume and expected certain level of skill-set from me,
and knowing that all of that is true, there is definitely something I can do to keep things rolling. In the next few days, I come across an API which handles all the heavy lifting associated with those 100,000s
lines of code, so I just focus on the core logic of the application needed for $X_i$. While I still did not fully experience the under-the-hood workings of the API that rescued me, my experience
working with computers in some specific ways helped me at the right time once I found the API. 

Therefore, as a reminder to myself: Always look for ways that don't demand straying too far away from your current state. Nature moves in a way so silent and unnoticeable, may be we imitate
some of it.

---

Until next blog... :v:
